scripts/script-dirs/fxkw/docs/script-dirs.md, before:

# script-dirs 
A mechanism for separate and sequential loading of script folders for more convenient mod management

## IMPORTANT Security Notice
This mod _**USES MODIFIED LUA WHITELIST**_ to access important parts of the game. All whitelist changes required for the mod to work are listed at the end of this .md file.

## Mod features
- Split loading of script folders
- Advanced cmd.help()
- New convenient commands for mod development
- Special copies of "X" functions for each script-dir folder

## More about the features
### Split loading of script folders
A similar script-dir folder uses the following architecture:

- `<script-dir folder>`
    - `_runtime`
        - `game`
            - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts/game`)
        - `global`
            - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts/global`)
        - `map-editor`
            - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts/map-editor`)
        - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts` root)
    - (Any scripts and other files)

The `_runtime` folder follows the same layout and principles as the root `scripts` folder. All scripts in the root `_runtime` folder and in the `global`, `game`, and `map-editor` folders are loaded in alphabetical order. The contents of the `global` folder are loaded when the game is not in play mode, like `scripts/global`. The contents of the `game` folder are loaded when playing a level - `scripts/game`. And the contents of the `map-editor` folder are loaded in the map editor - `scripts/map-editor`. Any other folders can be freely used to store important files of mod or for other purposes. **Don't use folders with names starting with `_`** — they are reserved by script-dirs mechanism.

### Advanced cmd.help()
Now each command has a customizable prefix. This allows you to divide commands into groups for easier searching. Commands in the help are written in the following format:

```
> [Prefix] cmd.name(ArgsType args)
Command description
```

If you want to create your own command, create it in the same format as the commands in the game's `50_cmd.lua` files, but add the parameter `pr` to the return help table (which any command in the cmd table returns when given a single string argument, "?"). The beginning of your command should look something like this:

```lua
cmd.name = function(args)
    if (args == "?") then
        return {
            pr = "Prefix",
            args = "ArgsType args",
            descr = "Command description",
        }
    end

    -- your code
end
```

When creating your command, be sure to **include the prefix**. Otherwise, the prefix will be set to `_MAIN_`, which is reserved by the game's stock commands. Also, **don't use prefixes starting with `_`** — they are reserved by script-dirs mechanism.

Also was added the output of information about JVM (OS, architecture, JVM version) on which the game is running.

### New convenient commands for mod development
- `cmd.help()` - Advanced version of original `cmd.help()`
- `cmd.gdx_javadoc()` - Opens the Javadoc version of LibGDX that runs this version of the game.
- `cmd.jdk8_javadoc()` - Opens Java 8 Javadoc. Regardless of the running Java version, the game is oriented towards version 8 for high cross-platform support of Lua VM.
- `cmd.reload_env()` - Reloads entire Lua environment without having to restart the game or level

### Special copies of dofile() functions for each script-dir folder
Instead of the regular `dofile()` function, you can use a special copy for your script-dir folder so that you don't have to write the same long path part `scripts/script-dirs/scriptdir_name` to execute the script in folder

```lua
-- Usual variant
dofile("scripts/script-dirs/scriptdir_name/myScript.lua")
-- script-dirs variant
dofile_scriptdir_name("myScript.lua")
```

## How to install script-dirs mechanism
The script-dirs mechanism is part of fxkw mod. To install fxkw with script-dirs, follow [these](../../../../README.md#how-to-install) instructions. Although this mechanism is designed for use separately from FCW, this installation method is not supported.

## How to install script-dir folders
Installing script-dir folders is very simple. They come with a one-line launcher script, they usually named like script-dir folder.
1. Copy the script-dir folder to the `scripts/script-dirs` path
2. Copy the launcher script to the root of the `scripts` folder
3. Done

## How to convert my mod into script-dir format
This is also quite simple. Basically, you just need to move your script files to specified folder and create a simple launcher script.
1. Create your script-dir folder with valid name in the `scripts/script-dirs` folder. The rules for naming scripе-dir folders are identical to the rules for naming variables in Lua.
2. Organize your scripts, files, and folders according to the script directory architecture. More details are available here.
3. If you have your own console commands, add prefix to them in the return help table. More details here.
4. Create script-dir launcher script. It's recommended to name them the same as the script directors. For example, `myMod.lua`
5. Add call to function in the script: `scriptDirs.load()`. As an argument, specify a string with the name of your script folder
```lua
scriptDirs.load("myMod")
```
6. Redy for use

## Lua Whitelist Modifications
- `com.badlogic.gdx`
    - `.backends.lwjgl3.Lwjgl3Net.openURI(arg0: String) : boolean` - For openning Javadocs in browser 
    - `.Gdx.net` - Access to libGDX Net object
    - `.Net.openURI(arg0: String) : boolean` - For openning Javadocs in browser 
- `com.prineside.tdi2`
    - `.desktop.DesktopLauncher.ActionResolverDesktop.getShortDeviceInfo() : String` - get OS, CPU arch and JVM version
    - `.managers`
        - `.script.ScriptEnvironment.loadScriptsInDir(arg0: String) : void` - Self explanatory
        - `.ScriptManager`
            - `.global : ScriptEnvironment` - **Whitelist** - Access to lua env in non-game state for load scripts runtime folder to env
            - `.setup() : void` - **Whitelist** - Reload ScriptManager and env
    - `.systems.ScriptSystem.scriptEnvironment` - Access to lua env in game and map editor state for load scripts runtime folder to env
    - `.ActionResolver.getShortDeviceInfo() : String` - get OS, CPU arch and JVM version
    - `.Game.scriptManager` - **Whitelist** - Access to game ScriptManager object for load scripts runtime folder to env and reload env command

Commit message:

Fix errors in script-dirs doc file. Update readme

scripts/script-dirs/fxkw/docs/script-dirs.md, after:

# script-dirs 
A mechanism for separate and sequential loading of script folders for more convenient mod management

## IMPORTANT Security Notice
This mod _**USES MODIFIED LUA WHITELIST**_ to access important parts of the game. All whitelist changes required for mechanism to work are listed [here](#lua-whitelist-modifications).

## Mod features
- [Split loading of script folders](#split-loading-of-script-folders)
- [Advanced cmd.help()](#advanced-cmdhelp)
- [New convenient commands for mod development](#new-convenient-commands-for-mod-development)
- [Special copies of "X" functions for each script-dir folder](#special-copies-of-dofile-functions-for-each-script-dir-folder)

## More about the features
### Split loading of script folders
A similar script-dir folder uses the following architecture:

- `<script-dir folder>`
    - `_runtime`
        - `game`
            - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts/game`)
        - `global`
            - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts/global`)
        - `map-editor`
            - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts/map-editor`)
        - (Autoload scripts, like in `scripts` root)
    - (Any scripts and other files)

The `_runtime` folder follows the same layout and principles as the root `scripts` folder. All scripts in the root `_runtime` folder and in the `global`, `game`, and `map-editor` folders are loaded in alphabetical order. The contents of the `global` folder are loaded when the game is not in play mode, like `scripts/global`. The contents of the `game` folder are loaded when playing a level - `scripts/game`. And the contents of the `map-editor` folder are loaded in the map editor - `scripts/map-editor`. Any other folders can be freely used to store important files of mod or for other purposes. **Don't use folders with names starting with `_`** — they are reserved by script-dirs mechanism.

### Advanced cmd.help()
Now each command has a customizable prefix. This allows you to divide commands into groups for easier searching. Commands in the help are written in the following format:

```
> [Prefix] cmd.name(ArgsType args)
Command description
```

If you want to create your own command, create it in the same format as the commands in the game's `50_cmd.lua` files, but add the parameter `pr` to the return help table (which any command in the cmd table returns when given a single string argument, "?"). The beginning of your command should look something like this:

```lua
cmd.name = function(args)
    if (args == "?") then
        return {
            pr = "Prefix",
            args = "ArgsType args",
            descr = "Command description",
        }
    end

    -- your code
end
```

When creating your command, be sure to **include the prefix**. Otherwise, the prefix will be set to `_MAIN_`, which is reserved by the game's stock commands. Also, **don't use prefixes starting with `_`** — they are reserved by script-dirs mechanism.

Also was added the output of information about JVM (OS, CPU arch, JVM version) on which the game is running.

### New convenient commands for mod development
- `cmd.help()` - Advanced version of original `cmd.help()`. More details [here](#advanced-cmdhelp).
- `cmd.gdx_javadoc()` - Opens the Javadoc version of LibGDX that runs this version of the game.
- `cmd.jdk8_javadoc()` - Opens Java 8 Javadoc. Regardless of the running Java version, the game is oriented towards version 8 for high cross-platform support of Lua VM.
- `cmd.reload_env()` - Reloads entire Lua environment without having to restart the game or level

### Special copies of dofile() functions for each script-dir folder
Instead of the regular `dofile()` function, you can use a special copy for your script-dir folder so that you don't have to write the same long path part `scripts/script-dirs/scriptdir_name` to execute the script in folder

```lua
-- Usual variant
dofile("scripts/script-dirs/scriptdir_name/myScript.lua")
-- script-dirs variant
dofile_scriptdir_name("myScript.lua")
```

## How to install script-dirs mechanism
The script-dirs mechanism is part of fxkw mod. To install fxkw with script-dirs, follow [these](../../../../README.md#how-to-install) instructions. While this mechanism is intended to be used separately from fxkw, this installation method is not currently supported.

## How to install script-dir folders
Installing script-dir folders is very simple. They come with a one-line launcher script, they usually named like script-dir folder.
1. Copy the script-dir folder to the `scripts/script-dirs` path
2. Copy the launcher script to the root of the `scripts` folder
3. Done

## How to convert my mod into script-dir format
This is also quite simple. Basically, you just need to move your script files to specified folder and create a simple launcher script.
1. Create your script-dir folder with valid name in the `scripts/script-dirs` folder. The rules for naming scripе-dir folders are identical to the rules for naming variables in Lua. For example, `myMod`
2. Organize your scripts, files, and folders according to the script directory architecture. More details [here](#split-loading-of-script-folders).
3. If you have your own console commands, add prefix to them in the return help table. More details [here](#advanced-cmdhelp).
4. Create script-dir launcher script. It's recommended to name them the same as the script directors. For example, `myMod.lua`
5. Add call to function in the script: `scriptDirs.load()`. As an argument, specify a string with the name of your script folder. For example:
```lua
scriptDirs.load("myMod")
```
6. Redy for use

## Lua Whitelist Modifications
- `com.badlogic.gdx`
    - `.backends.lwjgl3.Lwjgl3Net.openURI(arg0: String) : boolean` - For openning Javadocs in browser 
    - `.Gdx.net` - Access to libGDX Net object
    - `.Net.openURI(arg0: String) : boolean` - For openning Javadocs in browser 
- `com.prineside.tdi2`
    - `.desktop.DesktopLauncher.ActionResolverDesktop.getShortDeviceInfo() : String` - get OS, CPU arch and JVM version
    - `.managers`
        - `.script.ScriptEnvironment.loadScriptsInDir(arg0: String) : void` - Self explanatory
        - `.ScriptManager`
            - `.global : ScriptEnvironment` - **Whitelist** - Access to lua env in non-game state for load scripts runtime folder to env
            - `.setup() : void` - **Whitelist** - Reload ScriptManager and env
    - `.systems.ScriptSystem.scriptEnvironment` - Access to lua env in game and map editor state for load scripts runtime folder to env
    - `.ActionResolver.getShortDeviceInfo() : String` - get OS, CPU arch and JVM version
    - `.Game.scriptManager` - **Whitelist** - Access to game ScriptManager object for load scripts runtime folder to env and reload env command
